README.md, before:

# cmdbtools: A command line tool for CMDB varaints browser

## cmdbtools tutorial

The CMDB variant browser allows authorized access to its data through an Genomics API and **cmdbtools** is a command line tool for CMDB.

## Setup

Enable API access from your Profile in [CMDB browser](https://db.cngb.org/cmdb).

## Login

You need to login by CMDB API access key before you use it, which could be got from Profile->Genomics API.

```bash
python cmdbtools.py login -k your-genomics-api-key
```

If success you can use cmdbtools in your command line now.

## Annotate your VCF

cmdbtools just provides `annotate` function for this moment. You can annotate you VCF file with CMDB information by using `cmdbtools annotate` command.

Download a list of example variants in VCF format from [40samples.vcf.gz](tests/40samples.vcf.gz).
To annotate this list of variants with allele frequences from CMDB, you can run the following command on Linux or Mac OS.

```bash
python cmdbtools.py annotate -i 40samples.vcf.gz > 40samples_CMDB.vcf
```

It'll take about 2 min to funnish the annotation for about 3,000 variants.

And you will get 4 new fields of CMDB annotate information in VCF INFO mark as :

* `CMDB_AF`: Allele frequece in CMDB;
* `CMDB_AN`: Coverage in CMDB in population level;
* `CMDB_AC`: Allele count in population level in CMDB;
* `CMDB_FILTER`: Filter status in CMDB

```
##fileformat=VCFv4.2
##ALT=<ID=NON_REF,Description="Represents any possible alternative allele at this location">
##FILTER=<ID=LowQual,Description="Low quality">
##INFO=<ID=AC,Number=A,Type=Integer,Description="Allele count in genotypes, for each ALT allele, in the same order as listed">
##INFO=<ID=AF,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Allele Frequency, for each ALT allele, in the same order as listed">
##INFO=<ID=AN,Number=1,Type=Integer,Description="Total number of alleles in called genotypes">
##INFO=<ID=BaseQRankSum,Number=1,Type=Float,Description="Z-score from Wilcoxon rank sum test of Alt Vs. Ref base qualities">
##reference=file:///home/tools/hg19_reference/ucsc.hg19.fasta
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AN,Number=1,Type=Integer,Description="Number of Alleles in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AC,Number=A,Type=Integer,Description="Alternate Allele Counts in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AF,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Alternate Allele Frequencies from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_FILTER,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Filter from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
#CHROM  POS     ID      REF     ALT     QUAL    FILTER  INFO
chr21   9413612 .       C       T       6906.62 .       AC=25;AF=0.313;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.425;CMDB_AC=2459;CMDB_AF=0.207525;CMDB_AN=11834;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413629 .       C       T       8028.88 .       AC=30;AF=0.375;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-1.200e+00;CMDB_AC=6906;CMDB_AF=0.305445;CMDB_AN=22406;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413700 .       G       A       7723.82 .       AC=30;AF=0.375;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-9.000e-02
chr21   9413735 .       C       A       10121.72        .       AC=35;AF=0.438;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.977;CMDB_AC=2385;CMDB_AF=0.283965;CMDB_AN=8382;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413839 .       C       T       8192.08 .       AC=28;AF=0.350;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-5.200e-02
chr21   9413840 .       C       A       11514.35        .       AC=38;AF=0.475;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.253
chr21   9413870 .       T       C       7390.60 .       AC=26;AF=0.325;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-4.270e-01
chr21   9413880 .       T       A       146.96  .       AC=1;AF=0.013;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=2.12;ClippingRankSum=0.00
chr21   9413909 .       G       A       1131.78 .       AC=10;AF=0.125;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.549;CMDB_AC=209;CMDB_AF=0.01507;CMDB_AN=13683;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413913 .       C       T       8120.65 .       AC=28;AF=0.350;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-4.390e-01;CMDB_AC=2870;CMDB_AF=0.205597;CMDB_AN=13955;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413945 .       T       C       43787.68        .       AC=71;AF=0.888;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.089
chr21   9413995 .       C       T       9632.44 .       AC=29;AF=0.363;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.747
chr21   9413996 .       A       G       41996.48        .       AC=71;AF=0.888;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-1.242e+00;CMDB_AC=3308;CMDB_AF=0.688533;CMDB_AN=4790;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9414003 .       T       C       4256.54 .       AC=19;AF=0.238;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-6.030e-01
```

Commit message:

finish the function of query varaints

README.md, after:

# cmdbtools: A command line tool for CMDB varaints browser

## cmdbtools tutorial

The CMDB variant browser allows authorized access to its data through an Genomics API and **cmdbtools** is a command line tool for CMDB.

## Setup

Enable API access from your Profile in [CMDB browser](https://db.cngb.org/cmdb).

## Login

You need to login by CMDB API access key before you use it, which could be got from Profile->Genomics API.

```bash
python cmdbtools.py login -k your-genomics-api-key
```

If success you can use cmdbtools in your command line now.

## Query a single variant

A single variant can be retrieved from CMDB by using `query-varaint`.

Run `python cmdbtools.py query-variant -h` to see all available options.

A example of quering a varaint by chromosome name and position.

```bash
python cmdbtools.py query-variant -c chr17 -p 41234470
```

and you will get something like:

```bash
##fileformat=VCFv4.2
##FILTER=<ID=LowQual,Description="Low quality">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AN,Number=1,Type=Integer,Description="Number of Alleles in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AC,Number=A,Type=Integer,Description="Alternate Allele Counts in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AF,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Alternate Allele Frequencies from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_FILTER,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Filter from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
#CHROM	POS	ID	REF	ALT	QUAL	FILTER	INFO
17	41234470	rs1060915&CD086610&COSM4416375	A	G	74.38	PASS	CMDB_AF=0.361763,CMDB_AC=4625,CMDB_AN=12757
```

## Annotate your VCF

cmdbtools just provides `annotate` function for this moment. You can annotate you VCF file with CMDB information by using `cmdbtools annotate` command.

Download a list of example variants in VCF format from [40samples.vcf.gz](tests/40samples.vcf.gz).
To annotate this list of variants with allele frequences from CMDB, you can run the following command on Linux or Mac OS.

```bash
python cmdbtools.py annotate -i 40samples.vcf.gz > 40samples_CMDB.vcf
```

It'll take about 2 min to funnish the annotation for about 3,000 variants.

And you will get 4 new fields of CMDB annotate information in VCF INFO mark as :

* `CMDB_AF`: Allele frequece in CMDB;
* `CMDB_AN`: Coverage in CMDB in population level;
* `CMDB_AC`: Allele count in population level in CMDB;
* `CMDB_FILTER`: Filter status in CMDB

```
##fileformat=VCFv4.2
##ALT=<ID=NON_REF,Description="Represents any possible alternative allele at this location">
##FILTER=<ID=LowQual,Description="Low quality">
##INFO=<ID=AC,Number=A,Type=Integer,Description="Allele count in genotypes, for each ALT allele, in the same order as listed">
##INFO=<ID=AF,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Allele Frequency, for each ALT allele, in the same order as listed">
##INFO=<ID=AN,Number=1,Type=Integer,Description="Total number of alleles in called genotypes">
##INFO=<ID=BaseQRankSum,Number=1,Type=Float,Description="Z-score from Wilcoxon rank sum test of Alt Vs. Ref base qualities">
##reference=file:///home/tools/hg19_reference/ucsc.hg19.fasta
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AN,Number=1,Type=Integer,Description="Number of Alleles in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AC,Number=A,Type=Integer,Description="Alternate Allele Counts in Samples with Coverage from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_AF,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Alternate Allele Frequencies from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
##INFO=<ID=CMDB_FILTER,Number=A,Type=Float,Description="Filter from CMDB_hg19_v1.0">
#CHROM  POS     ID      REF     ALT     QUAL    FILTER  INFO
chr21   9413612 .       C       T       6906.62 .       AC=25;AF=0.313;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.425;CMDB_AC=2459;CMDB_AF=0.207525;CMDB_AN=11834;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413629 .       C       T       8028.88 .       AC=30;AF=0.375;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-1.200e+00;CMDB_AC=6906;CMDB_AF=0.305445;CMDB_AN=22406;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413700 .       G       A       7723.82 .       AC=30;AF=0.375;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-9.000e-02
chr21   9413735 .       C       A       10121.72        .       AC=35;AF=0.438;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.977;CMDB_AC=2385;CMDB_AF=0.283965;CMDB_AN=8382;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413839 .       C       T       8192.08 .       AC=28;AF=0.350;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-5.200e-02
chr21   9413840 .       C       A       11514.35        .       AC=38;AF=0.475;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.253
chr21   9413870 .       T       C       7390.60 .       AC=26;AF=0.325;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-4.270e-01
chr21   9413880 .       T       A       146.96  .       AC=1;AF=0.013;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=2.12;ClippingRankSum=0.00
chr21   9413909 .       G       A       1131.78 .       AC=10;AF=0.125;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.549;CMDB_AC=209;CMDB_AF=0.01507;CMDB_AN=13683;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413913 .       C       T       8120.65 .       AC=28;AF=0.350;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-4.390e-01;CMDB_AC=2870;CMDB_AF=0.205597;CMDB_AN=13955;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9413945 .       T       C       43787.68        .       AC=71;AF=0.888;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.089
chr21   9413995 .       C       T       9632.44 .       AC=29;AF=0.363;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=0.747
chr21   9413996 .       A       G       41996.48        .       AC=71;AF=0.888;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-1.242e+00;CMDB_AC=3308;CMDB_AF=0.688533;CMDB_AN=4790;CMDB_FILTER=PASS
chr21   9414003 .       T       C       4256.54 .       AC=19;AF=0.238;AN=80;BaseQRankSum=-6.030e-01
```
